Now that we learned about all these files and folders, let's start changing our visual and let's leave
the easy example of having some text in here. Instead
it would be nicer to have some real shapes
and as I showed you earlier in this module, for shapes, we can use d3, this package which makes it easy
for us to build and manage svg or actually any elements but especially svg elements in our chart.
So for that, we need to install that package and we do this in the command prompt
by canceling this running process. On Windows you can do this by hitting control-c twice or three times
actually to skip this and automatically quit, on Mac or Linux which you can also use for developing
this,
you'll also press control-c but only once.
Now let's quit this process
and now we need to install a new package which I will do by running npm install and now not -g because
I don't want to install it globally,
instead it should stay in this bar chart project which is why we should run it in this folder and there,
it's the d3
package, though here
I won't use the latest version
since there we had some substantial changes
and it doesn't have any disadvantages of using the older one,
so the version I will use is actually 3.5.5.
Now I will add a flag, --save which will add an entry to package.json,
you don't need that flag but to keep track of all the dependencies,
you should add it.
So now you can hit enter and this will now download it and create a new folder in your project folder,
the node_modules folder which stores all your dependencies.
If you go back to your editor and click this refresh
icon here, you will see this new node_modules folder which holds all third-party dependencies you installed,
the d3 folder and dependency we installed with this command,
you can also see that we now have an entry in the package.json file.
Now this is one thing and we also now need to inform our project about this third-party package because
it is pbiviz start command which will bundle all our code in the end and pull all our files together,
so we need to inform pbiviz, the Power BI visual tools that we added a new package which it should include
and we do this in the pbiviz.json file here under externalJS,
what you do is you simply link that file by pointing to node_modules/d3 and then in there
and you can actually have a look at this,
in d3,
we want to include this d3.min.json file, so d3.min.json and this will make
sure that we actually have this file available.
So don't forget to save this pbiviz.json file and with that, we're ready to use d3, well almost.
Keep in mind we're using Typescript here and since we use Typescript, we actually need to install a bridge
from this Javascript package which the d3 package is to Typescript code because Typescript doesn't
recognize the shape or the schema
d3 uses. So we can't get Typescript support for d3 if we just install the Javascript package because
how would Typescript know which type a certain object there uses and so on,
it couldn't.
Thankfully a lot of these translation files are available for download and we can easily install the
types for this d3 package by running npm install, still in the same folder, in the bar chart folder,
now add types d3 and here version 3.5.38 with the @ separator in between.
And then I'll add dash to save dev to mark it as a development-only dependency,
it will then be stored as such in the package.json file and it is clear that we only need this here
in development because we only use Typescript during development.
I can now hit enter and this will install it and also store it
in the node_modules folder as you can see in there once I refresh this,
here we have the types folder. With the types installed,
we need to add them to our tsconfig.json file because right now, tsconfig or Typescript
wouldn't be aware of these types.
So what we add here is the type routes node in this json file which takes an array as input and
that should be type routes and in this array, you simply add a path with ./ for a relative path pointing
to your node_modules folder
and in this node_modules folder, it's the @types folder and with that, we're telling Typescript whenever
you're encountering some code you don't recognize, like us calling d3,
have a look at node_modules types folder and see if you can find some translation for it there
and for d3 since we installed it, it will find that.
Don't forget to save this change too and thereafter,
don't forget to rerun pbiviz with the start command to keep on compiling our code.
With that, we installed d3 and the types and we're now ready to use that to create our own shapes and
add them to our chart.